1. right now, becasue the extern seq is writing to disk, we had the asumpton that it could only use PODs.
this means it can't keep a seq as its datatype (like a vector)
if the vals are sequences, how do you get the block size? also with pointers when you read them back you can't tell whether the heap has changed



2. Laxman ssaid a lazy filter could be good
hwoever one thing that's bad here but works in ram is that 
if you want to do a lazy filter for each block that makes an alloc for each surviving subarray

this works in ram bc of the heap

but if you want to write to disk it's not really possible

you may as well just make filter eager and consume the sequence 


3. Filter and flatten in BID -- the lazy part is that wehn you rquest a block is that it gives you a stream with indexes between blcoks

slices that live partly in one block and partly in the next 

in our setting you would need to read both blcoks
you need to walk the whole stream -- in our implementation you might need to read from the end and beginning of the next block
the end is an issue because we need to iterate, but the beginning is not an issue since we can issue smaler reads than writes


4. Flatten:
What does doing a flatten actually mean in this external memory setting?
Probably we're given a sequence of external (living on SSD) sequences and want to make it a single external sequence.
To do this, just append the chunk header list to an existing list.
The problem with this approach is that there'll now be duplicate indices that can't exist for operations like filter, which require
an ordering on the headers to ensure stability. So... how do we assign new indices for duplicates and ensure consistency within the flatten?

Let's first look at how it's done in a std::vector. If you flatten here, there's no order change at all becuase nothing needs to be appended,
it's just immediately accessible via indexing. The underlying issue is that the index in an array is not intrinsic to that data,
but a product of its position in the array. This is not the case for external seqeunces, as index is a field of the chunks and does not change when 
they are put into a different header list.

Maybe the solution is to give the struct a global ordering field,
but another option is to simply loop through all chunks with a running counter and assign them a new index


Another option which may be better is to evaluate it lazily by creating a small indexable list of offset index, chunk header list pairs




NOtes:

Move string to wrapper struct

we would like to bound teh number of blocks that are underfull
we can design a solution around this


peter's implementation also needs to be parallelized more


we can argue that each block is at least partially full

hash array map trie

rbt -- immutable sequence that's concatenable 
