1. There's some kind of balance to be struck between memory and CPU utilization when considering whether an algorithm would port well to SSD. We want the processors to be busy, but specifically busy on computational tasks (rather than something like small I/O requests)? How bad are random reads/writes (writes probably worse because of amplification) actually, because we have no problem doing it for the sampling in samplesort?



2. How many buckets are actually in samplesort or blocks in hypothetical scan? 
e.g. if you had only one bucket for the samplesort, there would be no parallelism, only concurrency. 
Obviously this is not right but how do we tune the bucket size and # to fit in DRAM?


3. When are we getting into zulip, computer, and room?


4. for inputs where we care about sorting, we need a converntion about how we keep the input across SSDs
e.g. striping, 
5. is the user supposed to give us the input and it lives on the SSD, or do we need to load some large file onto the SSDs? Can we have multiple sequences, and how would we handle these? How do the distributed people handle this type of thing in MapReduce is it just one input

Do we need to support haing multiple sequences like parlaylib? 
Do we need to provide a way to make these huge seqeunces (like reading in data from a file and writing out to SSDs?


Page striping does not work because the SSD can only read in blocks -- if we issue a parallel read to multiple disks, e.g. 30 of them, we actually need to read 30 blocks


Little confused on this statement about page striping. Does this mean that we're supposed to let the OS handle striping across disks or that it's inefficient generally to use striping? To hide the I/O latency I would have thought that we need to read in parallel.


maybe the comment is saying that you shouldn't stripe in general OR they're ust staying don't run the SSDs in RAID 
e.g. you can tell the OS to traet it like one SSD with RAID directly, so why is this a bad idea (other than being topology aware)?








----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Do the methods we write for our library actually need to interface with the SSDs directly or is this handled by something higher-level?

So, the key questions are like map reduce, filter, scan, and flatten

map reduce, have no order ambiguity

For scan, filter, what's the order in SSD0 vs SSD1?
imagine you;re doing a iflter with saturated SSDs (30 TB input) and we want to flter
filter shrinks it by a lot, dat ais now 3 TB
what should be the data on, for example, SSD8

do we pack them on one SSD? do we put the elements remaining in SSD8 on SSD8?




--------------------------------------

Ask if there's anything that we could do that would break the SSDs



rank/select daat structure trading space for imrpvoign speed

data struct:

we scanned over the input and produced output

if load balance , ard to get adjacent blocks unless we eagerly read them

each thread responsible 
blocks at granularity for 1 io per block

each thread scans input range

internally for each thread, reads can come back in any order



Filter implementation:

synchronize when all the reads are done -- in one thread or multiple?

maybe a seq has 1000 blcoks, pick some small constant like 32 reads at a time

we need to actually sort the pointers when the reads come back
we sort the pointers according to the indices that we get back from the read 

we need to blackbox the file reader -- we look at the pointer returned from the read and then look up what it means in our metadata




Current:

We're going to treat each sequence as living on a single file, which means that the metadata for that file gives us the total size of the sequence
so our sequence representation can actually be a sequence of FileData objects which live in DRAM and contain the number of blocks and location on disk 




